Let's say that you're working for a government office that's
trying to understand the issues facing the residents of the region.
It would be way too much effort to get feedback from every single person.
In cases like this where you have more of
people available than you can include in your study,
it's good to know about performing sampling as part of your design.
One way that we could sample from the population is just to randomly pull
people out of the full population until we get a 1000 participants.
Everyone has an equal chance of being selected so we should
expect the sample to be representative of the population as a whole.
This kind of sampling is called simple random sampling
and is what most people think of when random sampling is used on its own.
But what if we have a particular population characteristics that we're interested in?
Let's say that there are three subdivisions for our region;
a dense urban area with a lot of people here,
a moderately dense suburban area here,
and a low density of rural area here.
We might want to guarantee that we get
a representative opinion from folks living in the rural area.
But with a simple random sample,
we might end up undersampling from that area just by chance.
This is undesirable if our goal is to understand
each region separately as well as the whole.
So, as an alternative sampling approach,
we could take a specified sample from each subdivision of the population.
If we need a thousand people,
and 50 percent of people are in the urban region,
30 percent in the suburban region,
and 20 percent in the rural region,
then we would sample 500 people from the urban region,
300 from the suburban region and 200 from the rural region.
This would guarantee that we get a desired level of knowledge
from each region rather than leave the variability to chance.
Dividing your population into distinct subgroups and then sampling from each of
them is called stratified random sampling.